Use case: Cohere and OpenSearch (#3123)
astronomer/docs: learn/use-case-airflow-cohere-opensearch.md

---

With recent advances in the field of Large Language Model Operations (LLMOps), it is now possible to combine the power of different language models to more efficiently get an answer to a query. This use case shows how to analyze synthetic customer feedback data, combining embeddings and text classification by [Cohere](https://cohere.com/) LLMs with the [OpenSearch](https://opensearch.org/) search engine in an MLOps pipeline.

![Screenshot of the Airflow UI Grid view with the Graph view selected showing a successful run of the full use case DAG with 17 tasks.](/img/examples/use-case-airflow-cohere-opensearch_full_dag.png)

## Before you start

Before trying this example, make sure you have:

- The [Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/overview).
- [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop).

## Clone the project

Clone the example project from the [Astronomer GitHub](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-llm-customer-feedback.git). To keep your credentials secure when you deploy this project to your own git repository, create a file called `.env` with the contents of the `.env_example` file in the project root directory. 

> The repository is configured to create and use a local [OpenSearch](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/) instance, accessible on port `9200`. If you already have a cloud based OpenSearch instance, you can adjust the `AIRFLOW_CONN_OPENSEARCH_DEFAULT` connection string in the `.env` file to point to your instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The repository is configured to create and use a local [OpenSearch](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/) instance, accessible on port `9200`. If you already have a cloud-based OpenSearch instance, you can adjust the `AIRFLOW_CONN_OPENSEARCH_DEFAULT` connection string in the `.env` file to point to your instance.
```

To use the Cohere API, you need to [create an account](https://dashboard.cohere.com/welcome/register) and get an [API key](https://dashboard.cohere.com/api-keys). A free tier key is sufficient for this example. Add the key to the `.env` file replacing the `<your-cohere-api-key>` placeholder.

## Run the project

To run the example project, first make sure [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/) is running. Then, open your project directory and run:

```sh
astro dev start
```

> This command builds your project and spins up 5 Docker containers on your machine to run it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command builds your project and spins up 6 Docker containers on your machine to run it:
```
Assuming, based on number of bullets...

Author: I can count, sometimes 😅

- The Airflow webserver, which runs the Airflow UI and can be accessed at `https://localhost:8080/`.
- The Airflow scheduler, which is responsible for monitoring and triggering tasks.
- The Airflow triggerer, which is an Airflow component used to run [deferrable operators](deferrable-operators.md).
- The Airflow metadata database, which is a Postgres database that runs on port `5432`.
- A Python container running a mock API that generates synthetic customer feedback data, accessible at port `5000`.
- A local OpenSearch instance, that runs on port `9200`.

To run the project, manually run the `analyze_customer_feedback` DAG by clicking the **Play** button. Note that the `get_sentiment` and `get_embeddings` tasks can take a few minutes to complete, to allow for the Cohere API to process the text. If you want to quickly test the DAG, set the `NUM_CUSTOMERS` variable at the beginning of the DAG to a lower number.

> Congratulations! You've successfully run a full MLOps pipeline with Airflow, Cohere, and OpenSearch which efficiently finds a customer feedback testimonial based on a set of parameters, including its sentiment and similarity to a target testimonial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I think this is supposed to be at the end :)

### Project overview

This project contains two DAGs, one for the MLOps pipeline and one DAG to delete the index in OpenSearch for testing purposes. 

The [`analyze_customer_feedback` DAG](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-llm-customer-feedback/blob/main/dags/analyze_customer_feedback.py) ingests data from the mock API and loads it into OpenSearch. The DAG then uses the Cohere API to get sentiment and embeddings for a subset of the customer feedback returned by a keyword OpenSearch query. The embeddings and sentiment analysis scores are ingested back into OpenSearch and a final query is performed to get the positive feedback most similar to a target testimonial. The DAG ends by printing the retrieved testimonial to the logs.

![Screenshot of the Airflow UI Grid view with the Graph view selected showing a successful run of the full use case DAG with 17 tasks.](/img/examples/use-case-airflow-cohere-opensearch_full_dag.png)

> The [`delete_opensearch_index` DAG](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-llm-customer-feedback/blob/main/dags/delete_opensearch_index.py) deletes the `INDEX_TO_DELETE` in OpenSearch. This DAG is used during development to allow the the `analyze_customer_feedback` DAG to create the index from scratch.

Reviewer: I think it would be worth adding a sentence here telling the reader when they're supposed to run this DAG (or if they are at all).

- Ingest customer feedback data into OpenSearch

    ![Graph view of the first six task in the analyze_customer_feedback DAG dealing with data ingestion.](/img/examples/use-case-airflow-cohere-opensearch_ingest_section.png)

- Query customer feedback data from OpenSearch

    ![Graph view of the query section of the analyze_customer_feedback DAG.](/img/examples/use-case-airflow-cohere-opensearch_query_section.png)

- Perform sentiment analysis on relevant customer feedback and get embeddings using the Cohere API

    ![Graph view of the section in the analyze_customer_feedback DAG that performs sentiment analysis, vector embeddings with the Cohere API and loads the results back into OpenSearch.](/img/examples/use-case-airflow-cohere-opensearch_sentiment_embedding_section.png)

- Query OpenSearch for the most similar testimonial using KNN on the embeddings and filter for positive sentiment

    ![Graph view of the final section of the analyze_customer_feedback DAG that queries OpenSearch for the most similar testimonial using KNN on the embeddings and filter for positive sentiment.](/img/examples/use-case-airflow-cohere-opensearch_final_section.png)

> Several parameters of this DAG are set at the beginning of the DAG. You can adjust the number of customer feedbacks returned by the mock API by changing the `NUM_CUSTOMERS` variable. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Several parameters are set at the beginning of the DAG. You can adjust the number of pieces of customer feedback returned by the mock API by changing the `NUM_CUSTOMERS` variable. 
```
Are any of the other params ones the user can/should change? The way this is currently written I would assume no, that the user should only change `NUM_CUSTOMERS`, but we should maybe be explicit either way.

#### Ingest customer feedback data into OpenSearch

The first six tasks in the `analyze_customer_feedback` DAG perform the necessary steps to ingest data from the mock API into OpenSearch. 

![Graph view of the first six task in the analyze_customer_feedback DAG dealing with data ingestion.](/img/examples/use-case-airflow-cohere-opensearch_ingest_section.png)

> First, the `check_if_index_exists` task uses the [OpenSearchHook](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/apache-airflow-providers-opensearch/versions/latest/modules/OpenSearchHook) to check if an index of the name `OPEN_SEARCH_INDEX` already exists in your OpenSearch instance. The task is defined using the [`@task.branch`](airflow-branch-operator.md#taskbranch-branchpythonoperator) decorator and returns a different `task_id` depending on the result of the check. If the index already exists, the empty `index_exists` task will be executed. If the index does not exist, the `create_index` task will be executed. 

Reviewer: Is it safe to assume our target audience here knows what an OpenSearch index is and why it's needed?

Reviewer: Never mind, didn't read far enough :)

            "customer_id": 1843,
            "customer_location": "Switzerland",
            "customer_rating": 1,
            "product_type": "cloud service A",
            "timestamp": "2023-11-24T11:25:37Z",
        },
    },
]
```

In the final stage of the ingestion part of the DAG, the `add_lines_as_documents` task uses the [OpenSearchAddDocumentOperator](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/apache-airflow-providers-opensearch/versions/latest/modules/OpenSearchAddDocumentOperator) to add the customer feedback data to the OpenSearch index. This task is [dynamically mapped](dynamic-tasks.md) over the list of dictionaries returned by the `customer_feedback_to_dict_list` task to create one mapped task instance per set of `doc_id` and `document` parameter inputs. To map over a list of dictionaries, the `.expand_kwargs` method is used. 

```python
add_lines_as_documents = OpenSearchAddDocumentOperator.partial(
    task_id="add_lines_as_documents",
    opensearch_conn_id=OPENSEARCH_CONN_ID,
    trigger_rule="none_failed",
    index_name=OPENSEARCH_INDEX_NAME,
).expand_kwargs(list_of_document_kwargs)
```

#### Query customer feedback data from OpenSearch

> In the second part of the DAG OpenSearch is queried to get the subset of customer feedback data we are interested in. In the use case example, this is feedback from Swiss customers in the `A` test group using `cloud service A` who mentioned the user experience in their feedback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the second part of the DAG, OpenSearch is queried to get the subset of customer feedback data we are interested in. For this example, we chose feedback from Swiss customers in the `A` test group using `cloud service A` who mentioned the user experience in their feedback.
```

        "customer_rating": 1,
        "product_type": "cloud service A",
        "timestamp": "2023-11-24T11:25:37Z",
        "id": "804dfcfd-62f5-5f8c-b64e-b167dcb4b1dc",
    },
    {
        "ab_test_group": "A",
        "customer_feedback": "This product has transformed the way I work, absolutely fantastic UX!",
        "customer_id": 1714,
        "customer_location": "Switzerland",
        "customer_rating": 3,
        "product_type": "cloud service A",
        "timestamp": "2023-11-24T11:25:37Z",
        "id": "9c3880f4-f883-50d2-8a41-056c0efe4b2b",
    },
]
```

A second task, the `get_feedback_texts` is dynamically mapped over the list of dictionaries returned by the `reformat_relevant_reviews` task to extract the `customer_feedback` field from each dictionary. 

```python
@task
def get_feedback_texts(review_of_interest: dict) -> str:
    "Get the feedback text from the relevant reviews."
    feedback_text = review_of_interest["customer_feedback"]
    return feedback_text

feedback_texts = get_feedback_texts.expand(review_of_interest=relevant_reviews)
```

#### Perform sentiment analysis on relevant customer feedback and get embeddings using the Cohere API

> The third section of the DAG consists of one task that performs sentiment analysis on the relevant customer feedback data using the Cohere API.

Reviewer: We're showing and describing more than one task for this "section" - is "one task that performs sentiment analysis" a typo?

Author: Oh, yes, that is a typo. I originally had more sections before deciding to fuse two here but forgot to change the first sentence 😅

```python
@task
def get_sentiment(input_text: str, sentiment_examples: list, conn_id: str) -> float:
    "Get the sentiment of the customer feedback using the Cohere API."
    co = CohereHook(conn_id=conn_id).get_conn

    response = co.classify(
        model="large",
        inputs=[input_text],
        examples=sentiment_examples,
    )

    print(input_text)
    print(response.classifications)

    return {
        "prediction": response.classifications[0].prediction,
        "confidence": response.classifications[0].confidence,
    }

sentiment_scores = get_sentiment.partial(
    conn_id=COHERE_CONN_ID, sentiment_examples=SENTIMENT_EXAMPLES
).expand(input_text=feedback_texts)
```

Sentiment scores are returned in the format of:

```python
{'prediction': 'negative', 'confidence': 0.9305259}
```

> In parallel, the [CohereEmbeddingOperator] defines the `get_embeddings` task which uses the [embedding endpoint](https://docs.cohere.com/reference/embed) of the Cohere API to get vector embeddings for customer feedback. As the `get_sentiment` task, the `get_embeddings` task is dynamically mapped over the list of feedback texts returned by the `get_feedback_texts` task to create one mapped task instance per customer feedback to be embedded in parallel. 

Reviewer: Missing a link here? Or should it be `CohereEmbeddingOperator`?

Author: Yep, somehow forgot the link 🤦

> In parallel, the [CohereEmbeddingOperator] defines the `get_embeddings` task which uses the [embedding endpoint](https://docs.cohere.com/reference/embed) of the Cohere API to get vector embeddings for customer feedback. As the `get_sentiment` task, the `get_embeddings` task is dynamically mapped over the list of feedback texts returned by the `get_feedback_texts` task to create one mapped task instance per customer feedback to be embedded in parallel. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In parallel, the [CohereEmbeddingOperator] defines the `get_embeddings` task which uses the [embedding endpoint](https://docs.cohere.com/reference/embed) of the Cohere API to get vector embeddings for customer feedback. Similar to the `get_sentiment` task, the `get_embeddings` task is dynamically mapped over the list of feedback texts returned by the `get_feedback_texts` task to create one mapped task instance per customer feedback to be embedded in parallel. 
```

First, the `get_embeddings_testimonial_search_term` task converts the target testimonial to vector embeddings using the [CohereEmbeddingOperator](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/cohere/versions/latest/modules/CohereEmbeddingOperator). 

```python
get_embeddings_testimonial_search_term = CohereEmbeddingOperator(
    task_id="get_embeddings_testimonial_search_term",
    conn_id=COHERE_CONN_ID,
    input_text=TESTIMONIAL_SEARCH_TERM,
)
```

Next, the `prep_search_term_embeddings_for_query` task converts the embeddings returned by the `get_embeddings_testimonial_search_term` task to a list of floats to be used in the OpenSearch query.

```python
@task
def prep_search_term_embeddings_for_query(embeddings: list) -> list:
    "Prepare the embeddings for the OpenSearch query."
    return [float(x) for x in embeddings[0]]

search_term_embeddings = prep_search_term_embeddings_for_query(
    embeddings=get_embeddings_testimonial_search_term.output
)
```

> The `search_for_testimonial_candidates` task uses the [OpenSearchQueryOperator](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/apache-airflow-providers-opensearch/versions/latest/modules/OpenSearchQueryOperator) to query OpenSearch for the most similar customer feedback to the target testimonial using a k-nearest neighbors (k-NN) algorithm on the embeddings and filter for positive sentiment. Note that k-NN search requires the `knn` plugin to be installed in OpenSearch.

Reviewer: In the first paragraph of this section we say "KNN", which I assume is not different than "k-NN"? Should be consistent with the acronym throughout, and provide the k-nearest neighbors definition the first time it's mentioned.

```python
search_for_testimonial_candidates = OpenSearchQueryOperator(
    task_id="search_for_testimonial_candidates",
    opensearch_conn_id=OPENSEARCH_CONN_ID,
    index_name=OPENSEARCH_INDEX_NAME,
    query={
        "size": 10,
        "query": {
            "bool": {
                "must": [
                    {
                        "knn": {
                            "embeddings": {
                                "vector": search_term_embeddings,
                                "k": 10,
                            }
                        }
                    }
                ],
                "filter": [
                    {"term": {"sentiment_prediction": "positive"}},
                ],
            }
        },
    },
)
```

:::note

For more information on using KNN search in OpenSearch, see the [OpenSearch documentation on KNN search](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/knn/filter-search-knn/).

:::

> Lastly, the `print_testimonial_candidates` task prints the positive customer feedbacks that are closest to the target testimonial feedback and mention the user experience of the `cloud A service` to the logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lastly, the `print_testimonial_candidates` task prints positive customer feedback that is closest to the target testimonial feedback and mentions the user experience of the `cloud A service` to the logs.
```
